Add `Notelock` (#6043)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Gameplay/Note_lock/en.md

---
tags:
  - notelock
  - jittering notes
  - shaking notes
---

# Note lock

> ![](img/notelock.gif "Example of note lock: the second note is inaccessible")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![](img/notelock.gif "An example of note lock: the second note is inaccessible")
```

**Note lock** is a gameplay mechanic of [osu!](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) which may prevents a player from clearing a hit object. It happens if **two** conditions are met at the same time:

1. The [timing windows](/wiki/Beatmapping/Overall_difficulty#timing) of two hit objects overlap.

> 2. The first object of those two was either missed, or ignored by the player, and is still present on the play field.

Reviewer 2: missed objects don't block future objects. only ignored.

Reviewer 3: pretty sure the "miss" here refers to clicking outside the hit object (and moving on to the next one), while i think you mean "miss" as in the hit window running out (which happens later). something like this should be correct:

```suggestion
2. The first object of those two was not clicked and is still present on the play field.
```

Reviewer 2: An alternative way of saying all this would be to combine both 1 and  2 into a single statement. Something like "if there's a previous object which has not been hit or missed (ie. not judged)"

Author: fixed, should be better now

> In this case, the second object is said to be *locked* behind the first one, which makes osu! ignore the player's input on it. Note lock only becomes a problem if the player is unable to return to the previous object and interact with it properly, thus removing the lock. In this case, a locked note may cause a cascading failure, forcing the player to miss more and more subsequent objects, until they run out of [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health) and fail the beatmap.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, the second object is said to be *locked* behind the first one, which makes osu! ignore the player's input on it until the first object's hit window has passed. Note lock only becomes a problem if the player is unable to return to the previous object and interact with it properly, thus removing the lock. In this case, a locked note may cause a cascading failure, forcing the player to miss more and more subsequent objects, until they run out of [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health) and fail the beatmap.
```

> In this case, the second object is said to be *locked* behind the first one, which makes osu! ignore the player's input on it until the first object's hit window has passed. Note lock only becomes a problem if the player is unable to return to the previous object and interact with it properly, thus removing the lock. In this case, a locked note may cause a cascading failure, forcing the player to miss more and more subsequent objects, until they run out of [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health) and fail the beatmap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the second object is said to be *locked* behind the first one, which makes osu! ignore the player's input on it until the first object's hit window has passed. Note lock only becomes a problem if the player is unable to return to the previous object and interact with it properly, thus removing the lock. In this case, a locked note may cause a cascading failure, forcing the player to miss more and more subsequent objects, until they run out of [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health), and fail the beatmap.
```

Author: this is a regular sequential part of the sentence, no serial comma required IMO

> When osu! rejects input, note lock visually manifests as a jittering hit circle (sliders and spinners are exempt from the visual effect of note lock).

Author: yeah. was struggling with this one

## Cause

> Note lock is a part of osu!'s timing system and happens when the timing windows of two objects overlap. It occurs more often on beatmaps with low [OD](/wiki/Beatmapping/Overall_difficulty) values, because the timing windows of hit objects overlap more frequently. High [BPM](/wiki/Beatmapping/Beats_per_minute) combined with low or medium OD values may also expose note lock.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note lock is a part of osu!'s timing system and happens when the timing windows of two objects overlap. It occurs more often on beatmaps with low [OD](/wiki/Beatmapping/Overall_difficulty) or high [BPM](/wiki/Beatmapping/Beats_per_minute) values, because timing windows may overlap more frequently.
```
